# Q&A - V0


* Could you elaborate more on what uses we would have for "include code" I understand in the context of V0 that it means that the contents of the file "code" should be inserted into the grammer file, what if you want to insert it into a different file do you have that flexibility? What if they are in different directories would that impact it? What about if you want to include more than just the file "code" would that be allowed?

Let's sketch an example. Here is a directory structure with some files.

```
grammar
file
another
dir/
        file
        again
```

Here is a fragment from `grammar`

```
include file
include dir/file
```

Here is a fragment from `dir/file`

```
include another      # another must be next to grammar
include dir/again    # again is in the same directory as this file
```

So we can include files from files in the same directory, and from within subdirectories. We can also include files from an included file. But relative paths to files are resolved from the top-level file (grammar in this case).

---

* Looking at slide 3.4, I see that some of the grammar rules have tokens that are thrown out and tokens that are captured and able to be utilized within the Java code. Do we throw away certain tokens for cleanliness when we get to writing Java code and looking in our classes?

We only capture tokens that will help us during semantic processing. For example:

        <exp>:PrimAppExp ::= <prim> LPAREN <rands> RPAREN

Here, the parentheses are syntax used to structurally delimit the `<rands>`. But once parsed into a tree, the parentheses are no longer useful. We know they had to be there, but they don't add any value to our processing of a PrimAppExp.


---

* I found a lot of slides confusing but I think it's mainly because the grammar rules were presented at the very beginning and I had a hard time referencing it. However, I found the entire reading interesting, especially seeing the grammar file being converted to Java.

If it helps, you could look at the grammar file in code/V0/grammar .

---

* We discussed a bit on Discord, but I believe the explanation of expressed values vs. denoted values could do with some examples. Even if they don't have the same exact use across all languages, giving a list of some examples in just Java, or even a few possibilities in different languages, would be a good idea (e.g. expressed value = 20, memory reference = Class@12345678).

The expressed value is what we has programers think in terms of. The denoted value is how the language represents the value internally. Sometimes they are the same, sometimes they are not. In Java,

        x = 3;
        y = "Hi";

In the first line, 3 is the expressed value, and the denoted value 3 is literally stored in the memory associated with variable x.
In the second line, "Hi" is the expressed value. But the denoted value is not the same. Instead, Java creates a String object and stores it someplace in heap memory. Then it stores the address of that object in the memory associated with the variable y. So the denoted value is a reference.

When we later use x and y...

        x + 5
        y + " there"

We say that we add 5 to 3 producing 8, and we concatenate "Hi" with " there" to produce "Hi there". In the first line, the denoted values work exactly as the expressed values. In the second line, there is more going on here. Java dereferences the address in y to get the String object "Hi", then it constructs a String object " there" placing that on the heap, then it creates a new String object that holds the result of concatenating the two Strings. The result of that expression is an address to the memory location that contains the concatenated String object. Here Java's denoted values for Strings and objects tell us a different story. But the result is to provide us with the value we expressed.

---

* I am a little confused by the Java code that is generated itself, and the code we actually have to write in the grammar.  Is the code we have to write ourselves mainly toString() methods? Or is there more to it?

Rep will call toString() on the root of the parse tree. So we provide an implementation of this toString() method to do whatever we want. It could call toString() on other parse tree nodes, or it could call other methods. Either way, we are responsible for implementing those methods.
