# V1 - Q&A


* How often do you have to disambiguate the grammer rules, is this something that you would try to avoid if possible?

Every time you have the same non-terminal on the LHS of a rule ...

```
<exp> ::= <LIT>
<exp> ::= <VAR>
<exp> ::= <op> LP <rands> RP
```

You must supply PLCC a name for each ...

```
<exp>:LitExp ::= <LIT>
<exp>:VarExp ::= <VAR>
<exp>:PrimappExp ::= <op> LP <rands> RP
```

Every time the same type of captured symbol appears on the RHS in a rule ...

```
<tree> ::= <NAME> LP <tree> <tree> RP
```

You must supply PLCC a name for each ...

```
<tree> ::= <NAME> LP <tree>left <tree>right RP
```


* What is the purpose of environments? Do we use them in any other contexts besides the current one? How do they help us?

Environments (Env) are how we resolve symbols to values. Their linked structure will allow us to implement static-scoping semantics with nested scopes. They are fundamental to what it means when we "use" a variable in code. We will use environments through the rest of the course.


* On the topic of exception throwing, I noticed that the DivPrim class would need an exception thrown if division by zero was attempted - would we be throwing a normal exception or a special one that we define, and if we were to define it, would we just be creating an exception class and including it in our specification? (for example, include "DivideByZeroError")

For now all our languages will throw PLCCException with an appropiate message.
This will allow PLCC to report it properly.

You could try throwing an arbitrary (unchecked) exception and see what happens.


* I think a UML parse tree could be useful to provide specific examples in V1 onwards as well, as was done in V0.

Here is a good practice for understanding a parse tree. Take a grammar and a program in the defined language. Draw what you think the parse tree would look like. Then compile the language and run its `parse -t < program.txt`. This will show you the trace of parsing, which will have the same structure as the parse tree in memory. The only difference is that the trace will also contain uncaptured tokens. So remove these, and you have the parse tree. Compare this to your prediction. If your prediction is off, try to figure out why - see your instructor if you cannot - and repeat the process until you get it right.


* Are we only going to be able to use the roman numeral variables in the environment for V1?

Yup.


* The first homework assignment I felt went really well apart from Question 7, that one put me in a real blender.

I'll go over solutions after the late submission window closes.
