* Do the programming languages that we use like Java check that before a procedure is defined, that all of the variables within the procedure are defined. Is that why we can get away with defining variables after the procedure because no such checks exist?

Yes, the Java compiler checks that all symbols are bound to a variable (or
class, or method) that is in scope.

Python also performs these checks, but the checks are performed at runtime
so results in a runtime error.

Our language is like Python. If it can't find a symbol in the appropriate
environment at runtime, an exception is raised.

* Can you go over the iterator methods that are responsible for iterating through varList and expList on slides 3.86 - 3.87

In case we don't get to it during class, check out this reference:
https://www.w3schools.com/java/java_iterator.asp


* I'm still confused on the environment diagrams, particularly for new structures like LetRec

The key is when to draw the extended environment in which the body of the
letrec will evaluate. For a letrec, the new environment is created BEFORE
the letDecls are evaluated. So draw it immediately along with its initially
empty bindings. Then evaluate the letDecls one at a time, updating the bindings
with the new binding after each evaluation. After the letDelcs are done,
then evaluate the body of the letrec.

If you follow the above, then when a ProcExp is evaluated in the letDecls,
then it will capture the correct environment.

* Now that we have access to letrec, is there any reason you would use let instead of letrec?

Yes, assuming no side-effects, the RHS of letDecls of a let can be evaluated
in any order, including in parallel. The RHS of letDecls in letrecs must be
evaluated in order because each adds a binding to the same environment.
So optimizations can be applied to lets that cannot be applied to letRecs.
So prefer lets over letrecs.

* I was confused on the use of define in the v6 language.

Define is a program, not an expression. It's purpose is to update the
top-level environment's bindings with new bindings or to redefine existing
bindings.

When we are running interactively with REP, we can use define to initialize
the top-level environment.

* So, `<let>` evaluates all the RHS of each expression, then the LHS of each expression, and then creates necessary bindings. But in `<letRec>` one expression (both LHS and RHS) is evaluated at a time? On slide 3.89, the environment captured by procedure f knows about the binding of x to 5, meaning x and 5 are bound together first, and then the next expression is evaluated and another binding is created?

Yes.

* Are top-level variables the same as global variables, or are there some nuanced differences between the two?

Yes, they are global variables.

* So, let / letrec binds variables to the current environment, while define binds variables to the initial environment (otherwise sharing the features of letrec)?

I think you have it. A little more precisely...

let and letrecs extend the current environment with some bindings, and then
evaluate their body in that new environment.

letrecs create the new environment immediately and then evaluate each RHS
in its letDecl in the new environment, and then binds the resulting value
to its symbol in the new environment's bindings. This is done for each
letDecl in order. Then the body is evaluated in the same environment.

Defines do not create a new environment. They update the top-level environment's
bindings.

Defines and letrecs both enable recursion because a ProcExp evaluated within
them capture the same environment whose bindings will be updated with the
resulting ProcVal, allowing the ProcVal can refer to itself.
